How To Perform Affiliate Marketing Using Your Facebook Page and Website
BY SHIVAM TIWARI · PUBLISHED MARCH 28, 2017 · UPDATED JULY 23, 2017

What is Affiliate Marketing?
A tip for the beginners in affiliate marketing that try to find out most selling products
on these affiliate websites and try to market them. It'll help you generate good traffic
as well as more people may buy it.

Definition
Affiliate Marketing is a type of commission based program in which you market a product from any big affiliate websites such as Amazon, eBay, FlipKart, etc.

You get your percent of money when someone purchases that product through your given link.

it is marketing

The affiliate marketing in a form of a summary is all about telling people about the products that are on sale or having some good reputation in online marketplace.

Make people aware of it through your referals and earn commissions.

How does this work?
First, all you need is a good Facebook page and website with an active base audience. It could be either 100 people, 500 people or even thousand.

After having a Facebook page connected to your website all you need is to register for affiliation by using one of the links provided below:

Amazon Affiliates
https://affiliate-program.amazon.in/

Amazon pays you 12% commission for each purchase made through your links.

 

eBay Affiliates
affiliates.ebay.in/affiliate-offers.html

eBay pays 12% commission as well.

 

FlipKart Affiliates
https://affiliate.flipkart.com

However, commissions varies in case of Flipkart depending upon the type of products. Get more information by clicking on the link above.

 

And there are many many more!

All you need to get started is:

1. Register

2. Choose your product that you want to affiliate

3. Provide those links to your clients that’ll buy from your links

 

Let me show you how should you begin with Amazon.
 

I’m going to show you how to do affiliate marketing on your Facebook page or website and earn a lot of income through that.

Let’s begin with registering for an affiliate on Amazon.com using the link i’ve provided earlier in this post.

After opening the link, click on Join Now for Free button, as shown in this picture beneath.

window that opens after clicking on the link given above

After opting to Join now for free you’ll be redirected to login/registration area. Here, you have to insert your email and password if you have on Amazon or make a new one by clicking on register now tab.

signup to Amazon Affiliate Program

After filling up your details such as your name, email address and password you’ll get to your other information tab in which you have to put your address (Address that you’ll use to receive payments by check).

Please fill your real name in “Payee Name” option. The same name will be use on your check that you’ll receive through Amazon.

You can also type in your parents name and contact information, in case if you’re not 18+ .

Next, you’ll be taken to a window in which you have to submit the URL of your facebook page and website that you’ll use to advertise Amazon products. Don’t worry, just fill your Facebook page URL and website domain in it and click next.

fill up the url's of your facebook page and website

 

Is mobile app URL necessary?
 

Don’t worry if you don’t have a Mobile App, just fill out the details of your website and click next.

After that, you’ll get redirect to your website profile in which you have to insert some information about what products  you prefer to sell on your website and similar stuff.

I prefer you to read instructions before filling anything into that profile area.

fill up information regarding your website / app

When you done filling up the short description form of your website, click on next and that’s it!

 

After performing above steps, you’ll have a menu to search for items you prefer to affiliate.

 

What’s next?
 

For example, search for an Indian traditional Saree, click on get the link, and place that link on your website.

Now, once someone likes the image and clicks on the link provided by you, they’ll get redirect to the product’s page in Amazon and once they purchase it, you’ll get 12% of the price that Saree has.

Now, as you now know how to get start with being affiliate on Amazon, do register your accounts on other websites such as snapdeal, flipkart, ebay too and get profit from them as well.

Can you really make money doing affiliate marketing on Facebook?
Yes, you can earn money doing affiliate Marketing on Facebook however beware of facebook rules when it comes to affiliates and make sure that you build a valuable business not just spam people with links.

When it comes to facebook you need to beware of who to target and best way to know that is if you have run some previous ads in facebook to get to know your audience. Learn about split testing ads as well.

The best idea to start with affiliate marketing on Facebook is if you have an ability to be productive on Facebook is use the same strategies but instead of driving traffic to affiliate offer, drive that same traffic to your self hosted blog. Once this traffic hits your self hosted blog you can essentially do anything you want with it. You can capture leads you can sell products you can recommend affiliate offers you can build your reputation and you can grow your brand.

Learn more about SEO and it’s strategies to help you earn money, because eventually we have a similar goal: To generate revenue! Comment down below if you’ve some more ideas to share with us!
